---
datecreated: 2023/08/28
alias: 
course: BIOL 140A, CHEM 111
---

- Making and breaking of chemical bonds that change composition of matter is a [[Chemical Reactions]]
- Reaction between $\ce{2H_2 + O_2 -> 2H_2O}$
- Reaction breaks covalent bonds of H_2 and O_2
- Forms new bond of H_2O
- $\ce{->}$arrow indicates conversion of starting materials
	- called [[Reactants]]
- Results into [[Products]]
- Coefficients indiate number of molecules involved
- Matter is conserved in chemical reaction
- Photosynthesis
	- Chemical reaction that rearranges matter
	- Reactants
	- $\ce{6CO_2+6H_2O->C_6H_{12}O_6+6O_2}$
	- Turns Co2 and H2O into glucose and oxygen
- $<=>[\ce{3H_2+N_2}][\ce{2NH_3}]$
- Opposite harpoons mean its reversible
- [[Chemical Equilibrium]]
- Concentrations have stabilized at a certain ratio
- Almost until all reactants are converted to products
# CONCEPT CHECK 2.4
1. MAKE CONNECTIONS Consider the reaction between hydrogen and oxygen that forms water, shown with ball- and-stick models at the beginning of Concept 2.4. After studying Figure 2.10, draw and label the Lewis dot struc- tures representing this reaction.

$H-O-H$

1. Which type of chemical reaction, if any, occurs faster at equilibrium: the formation of products from reactants or that of reactants from products?
2. WHAT IF? Write an equation that uses the products of pho- tosynthesis as reactants and the reactants of photosynthesis as products. Add energy as another product. This new equa- tion describes a process that occurs in your cells. Describe this equation in words. How does this equation relate to breathing?


# Chapter 2 Review (42-43)